# Architecture feelings - EPFL Machine Learning

This is the second class project of the 2018 EPFL Machine Learning course.
In this document you can see an overview of the project and how to
run it, as well as some useful information about the requirements and the
implementation. If you require more specific information, you can check the
report (`report.pdf`) or the notebooks (see also on GitHub [main](https://github.com/joSanchez28/Machine-Learning-Projects/blob/master/Project2-ArchitectureExperiment/ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.ipynb), [secondary](https://github.com/joSanchez28/Machine-Learning-Projects/blob/master/Project2-ArchitectureExperiment/Modeling_every_label_demo.ipynb)).

## Project folders
The project has the following folder (and file) structure:

* `ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.ipynb` Main Jupyter notebook where you can find the main development of the project. - If you want to follow the project development we really encourage you to see this notebook.
* `Modeling_every_label_demo.ipynb` Second and last Jupyter notebook. In this notebook we extrapolate our study in the 'exciting' feeling to the rest of the feelings.
* `data/`. Directory with the data sets given by the hosting lab collaborator,
namely `T_features.csv` and
`table_dataset_GreeceSwitzerland_N265_metrics_mSC5_JPEGtoBMP_Michelson_RMS.csv`; and also data sets generated, `original_data.parquet` and `pixels_compressed.parquet`.
    * `BMP/` Directory containing the folders with the different images given by the hosting lab collaborator. For each scene we have the cube1,...,cube6 and cube_persp images.
* `docs/`. Directory with the report in pdf `report.pdf` and in `report.tex`.
* `scripts/` Python files
    * `ArchitectureFeelings.py`. Just in case you can not (or you do not want to) run the code of `ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.ipynb` with the Jupyter notebook; you can run this as an usual python script.
    * `Modeling_every_label_demo.py`. Just in case you can not (or you do not want to) run the code of `Modeling_every_label_demo.ipynb`
* `visualizations/` Directory containing the images (plots and visualizations) saved in during the notebooks execution.
* `sklearn_models/` Directory with the most of the grid searches done in both notebooks and saved as `.pkl` with the joblib library.


## Requirements for running the project
We recommend the [Anaconda environment](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) with Jupyter notebook for open and running both notebooks, `ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.ipynb` and `Modeling_every_label_demo.ipynb`. A computer with a valid installation of Python 3 is required. For having this you can run in the anaconda prompt:
* `conda update python` or `conda install python=3.6`

NumPy and Matplotlib packages are used, you can get them with pip tool:
* `pip3 install numpy`
* `pip3 install matplotlib`

The following packages are also required for running the whole notebooks:
- [seaborn](https://seaborn.pydata.org/) for nice visualizations.
- [scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/) ML methods .
- [pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) for dealing with the data datasets  
- pyarrow, neccesary for save in .parquet format.
- [joblib](https://pypi.org/project/joblib/) for saving the skcikit-learn grid searches.
- [imageio](https://pypi.org/project/imageio/) and scikit-image for dealing with the images.

You can install them with conda run as below:
* `conda install -c anaconda seaborn`
* `conda install -c anaconda scikit-learn`
* `conda install -c anaconda pandas`
* `conda install -c conda-forge pyarrow` or `conda install -c conda-forge/label/gcc7 pyarrow`
* `conda install -c anaconda joblib`
* `conda install -c conda-forge imageio`
* `conda install -c anaconda scikit-image`

You can avoid the anaconda environment and the jupyter notebooks if you just use `ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.py` and `Modeling_every_label_demo.py` (still you would have to install the packages above); however we suggest the first way.

### Data requirements
In order to run the main notebook (or the script) you would need the data sets and the images given by our supervisor. As we can not provide you the data, you would have to ask her for the data sets: [Kynthia Chamilothori](https://people.epfl.ch/kynthia.chamilothori) (her email is kynthia.chamilothori@epfl.ch).

## Running the project
### Notebooks
Just run them with Jupyter Notebook. The main one, `ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.py`, will load the data sets `T_features.csv` and
`table_dataset_GreeceSwitzerland_N265_metrics_mSC5_JPEGtoBMP_Michelson_RMS.csv`. The second one will load the .parquet files generated by the first one.
### Scripts
They will load the same as the respective notebooks.You can execute them from the scripts folder:
```
/scripts$ python3 ArchitectureFeelings-Notebook.py
/scripts$ Modeling_every_label_demo.py
```
